So let's make a little recap of some of the situations in which we are using the moot tense with a new verb dehar
Dehar.
Dehar means to leave, but in the sense of to leave a message rather than leave to go out like Salir.
Good.
How would you say leave me a message speaking formally?
A message is un mensaje, un mensaje
Deche me un mensaje.
Good.
Deche me un mensage.
And of course positive command, we have the me-me after the verb.
Deche me unmensache.
How would you say I want you to leave me a message?
Speaking informally, I want you to leave me a message.
Quiero que me dejes un mensaje.
Good.
In the same way, if you were to say I want to tell him to leave me a message, you won't say I want to tell him to leave me a message literally.
You will say I want to tell him that.
He leaves me a message.
What is to say or to tell?
Tesir.
Desir, good.
So I want to tell him is the first bit.
Quiero decirle that he leaves me a message.
Que teje me deje un mensaje.
Good.
Quiero decirle que me deje un mensaje.
So you don't want to tell him that he is leaving you a message.
You want to tell him to leave you a message.
So here we use the mood tense.
No, if you were to say, quiero decirle que me deja un mensaje, what would be understood there without the mood tense is I want to tell him that he, she or you formal is leaving me a message.
But if you use here your mood tense, then it's understood there that sense of order and you will understand I want to tell him to leave me a message.
Quiero decirle que me deje un mensaje.
Good.
When he leaves you the message, call me.
Let's speak informally.
When he leaves you the message, call me
Good.
Call me informally.
So it's a shortcut.
Yamame.
Good.
So after quando when we're referring to the future, when we're referring to something that hasn't happened yet, we feel a bit superstitious about it, and we want to use our mood tense
Cuando te deje el mensaje, llámame.
It's essential that he sees my message.
It is essential.
The T-I-A-L here, what do you think might happen to it in Spanish?
Like the T I O N, like in tradition becomes tradition.
So something similar might happen here
Essential.
Well done.
Spatial Espacial.
Good.
So it's essential that he sees my message.
It's essential que he sees my message.
It's based on the irregularity of Deo, the I version.
There.
Good.
So it's essential that he or she or you formal see my message
Es esencial que vea mi mensaje.
Good.
Ojalá in Spanish means something like hopefully, ojalá.
Ojalá.
You will hear it a lot, ojalá.
And there's a lot of versions of the history of where it came from.
What it's definitely got something to do with is Allah, the Arabic word for God or the God, Allah.
And the south of Spain was part of the Muslim world for for around the eighth centuries, so we have a lot of Arabic
uh words and structures and habits in Spanish and one of them is this popular expression ojalá and there's a lot of versions of where it came from exactly although my favorite is that it's a contraction of ojo a la
Ocho means I and it's still used in some places like watch out ocho ocho eh careful
Watch it, beware.
So it's like oh you say it when you want something.
Oh lah, I want this.
Oh hopefully.
Although that's just one version of where oh came from.
So after oh you can use the moot tense to say what you want to happen.
So you can say for example hopefully she will leave a message or she leaves a message using your mood tense.
Hopefully she leaves a message.
Good.
Ochala deche un mensaje.
How would you say hopefully it will be soon?
when something happens is a characteristic of it.
So if you want to say hopefully it's soon, we need to use that irregular root of sir that we have in the moods tense.
Do you remember how that is?
And it's like the popular expression that we have in Spanish that you might hear a lot, which begins O.
O sea.
Good.
Hopefully, it is soon.
Hopefully it will be soon.
Ochala sea pronto.
Good.
So ojalá you will hear and want to use very often and also you use with this subjective tense.
So like we said.
You just want to listen out for when the mood tense is used, get interested in it, analyze why it's been used, think about why it's been used, think about how that fits in.
to the the image and the vision that you are getting of the mood tense and how and why it's used.
It's something that you should enjoy and analyze and the most interesting areas might be the optional uses because with the optional uses
of the Moet tense you can really give many different tones to what you're saying, whether it's humour or sarcasm or sincerity, irritation.
There's a whole spectrum of feelings you can express with it.
And these are best understood, explored in a live environment, practicing, listening to and analyzing Spanish.